hello everyone welcome to the IPF s all
hands call this is the first of many
calls today unfortunately as you can
have noticed we cannot stream this and
so I'm so sorry who the people who like
to beat me if you're seeing this in the
future that's because we've uploaded the
YouTube which is the plan so welcome
from the future you have any questions
we're always on IRC and sprint issues if
you want to raise them please do our
goals for days a bit different than on
normal calls I'm going to be going over
q4 in the future and how things go and
I'll let Matt talk about that in a
minute um after this call which should
take around an hour which would end it
around one o'clock eastern time which i
believe is 1700 UTC we will have four
calls today go I PFS lib PTP know have a
pest orbit jsf you've had some live p2p
those are going to be the four calls in
that order as you can see on the sprint
issue which is in github com /i PFS /
p.m. / issues / 217 I think that ends
the airplane like recording of my
announcements today so please take your
seats buckle up and I'm going to hand it
over to Matt I'm gonna be the note-taker
so that's already taken care of so Matt
what are we doing today well hello uh so
today we're going to be focused on road
map for q4 I since we are not able to
stream that means that anyone on IRC is
not able to watch so if everyone can
help by watching IRC and if anyone
appears there encourage them to join the
zoom call help them get on the zoom call
so that people can at least follow along
and ask questions I just ask them to
mute and turn off their their video that
would be great because we do want people
to be able to participate and so let's
start with a roll call and then we'll
talk about today's structure so let's do
since there are a lot of people
converged at protocol labs in Toronto
let's go geographic but if you're in
Toronto right now do Geographic based on
where you usually are so starting with
with kuba or yeah we should do roll call
because it's it's a road map called so
start with Cuba hello everyone I'm cool
bug kabuki on rcn github and i'm working
on going AFS and all connected libraries
and i think that's it
I guess more than second so hi I'm hot
code I work on orbit and I guess I'm
chase I'll confess i'm also work on coop
ifs and the infrastructure
Hector
hi Hector and I were working go I DFS as
well daveed hi MTV I work on just let me
fasten repeated beer and I'm about to go
to customs right now so I have to
for a little bit you guys need so we
have now have recorded evidence that
debate is violated international law by
having a phone on in before going
through customs all right Victor I'm
Victor live in barcelona i work on
JavaScript things associated two are
bffs maps and everything wrong
but then I guess uh oh Friedel who just
showed up here broke who are you colonel
can you hear me yep cool I'm afraid I
use JavaScript things mostly turns
late-stage a site give s and GP modules
related to that all right now u.s. East
Coast I'm Matt some well I'm program
manager for protocol website I do lots
of stuff around governance decision
making and overall organizational
roadmap i'm richard somehow furthers the
west of philly even though i'm in boston
its ok matt i won't blame you too much
here in Montreal oom in Montreal instr
okay I do documentation and community
stuff and yeah I am Emily representing
the south eastern portion of the US I am
project manager for protocol abs and I
manage projects
one is work on
the whole different sub projects and I
do a lot of figuring up with the bra
your audio is very bad one um I don't
know why make sure you're on the right
Network reps I think Jeremy is next yeah
I'm cheering and I don't understand why
wants internet is significantly worse
than the rest of ours I work on go I PFS
and do the things with the code
cool I think that's Oh Kevin Atkinson I
don't know if you want to he said he's
just lurking on this one in the track
though it's just following along or all
right so today's call we're focusing on
road map for q4 and identified it so the
priority is not necessarily to set the
road map the priority is to identify
what are the what are the things that we
should be discussing that we should be
considering for priorities for q4 and in
general we will be going in depth
project by project with this stuff
during the normal project specific
spring calls so wanting to emphasize is
that if we want to identify anything
that would be great to work on that's
overarching efforts things that cut
across multiple projects now is a good
time to discuss those other than that
then we'll at that tail into this call
will just one will be going through a
quick run through of a reminder of what
are all of the projects in the I PFS
sphere um other than those two things
are there any agenda items that people
would like to add to the agenda for
today okay all right so then the this
All Hands call might be kind of short
and we'll get a little bit of a break
before we go into the go I PFS call I
but I so then beginning with is there
anything that people would like to flag
that would be great to work on in q4
that does not basically as not go I PFS
JSI PFS lib p2p or orbit for example do
people have things to discuss around
multi formats two people two people out
what were some of the other things that
people had flagged on now would be a
good time to talk about cluster
clustering or private networks these
sort of cross-cutting topics does anyone
want to i want to just provide this
opportunity for people to call those
things out well project repos i means we
just throw stuff up yeah well let's
let's just do a quick yeah how about
people call things out and i will type
them down in this list and then uh and
then we'll run through them so project
you multi-format salute p2p and I'm pld
organizational setup
tutorials I want better I PFS tutorials
I want of overhauling of the IP best
examples on the website
define Overhaulin going through quality
assurance and rewriting if necessary
particularly in a structured textbook
like manner which I believe matt has
been working on
generally documentation on tutorials
examples but API documentation um yeah
basically everything
anything else we will let you process or
under people say say that again I sorry
I was and also community process around
documentation like best to facilitate
apparently I'm talking right the box
I'll do this blog Lars oh yeah like
making it out your ideas I've been its
pages making that a product making it
work really well so you can
automatically host a static website on I
PFS
alright that seems like a good list is
there any is there anything missing from
that list where people want to add
okay I don't see any hands up so we'll
just go oh did someone just say
something and yeah just put I'd be a
first-class sir and general I'll abia
alignment between go on and JavaScript
can we just launched file coin just this
border
I so um so then we'll run with this list
and we'll just go in the order that
people called them out I so that would
mean the first thing was project read
because is there anything you wanted to
discuss Richard about project you're
close no I was thinking be great to work
on it great to know have that be a goal
for this quarter I should be like Roger
you I so project repose it seems like a
really great place for us to start
building up metrics for our projects it
as a whole so it already is a really
great dashboard it's better than a lot
of open source dashboards that I've seen
out there um I'm we could add in more
things for Whitby's to give metrics of
how healthy are these projects how much
I've takes you they have how much
contribution do we have what's our
turnover in terms of people contributing
and pull request getting close so
there's a lot of potential use there
yeah it's been great this quarter um so
I've been going through and making sure
a lot of them are green so likely to be
multi formats have been really doing a
lot of effort trying to ensure that like
everything works there what I would
really like would be to actually have
stats for that as well and be able to
log differences over time so I can sort
of see how much green have take made
things nobody contribute dogs everywhere
licenses everywhere like how what what
our progress is because I feel like a
lot of that stuff is a big mod very well
and that's sort of salt building the
entire dashboard up a bit further from
what it currently is which is kind of
just an overall matrix into like a nice
more than a table you know moving on to
a full dashboard I think that would be
super super cool preeto yeah I want to
say something similar in terms of more
than a table I'm given that there are so
many projects under it hard to
suppose to through them so I think we
could just on the usual I just say the
features actually
they're improving also very quickly it's
really you might want to talk a bit
louder it's kind of hard to hear when
when you're talking or move closer to
the microphone so that I guess the
question is like what could we get a
read of people sentiment about how like
if we were to make that a priority for
q4 not for everyone but how how strong
is people's interest in seeing project
reposts evolve over the next three
months
maybe that's a badly post question um
well let's just go through this list
will go through the whole list and then
and then come back around and people
that we have time for people to think
about priorities and who's going to work
on what one the one thing I would say
about a project repose is that I think
metrics are super important is they're
starting to become like really valuable
thing to to use in terms of figuring out
what it is are there what we need to
spend time on PRS and improvements and
so on sitting and doing standing outside
some time to focus on that during this
corner would be pretty valuable cool all
right multi formats to pick up things to
say about multi formats for especially
for q4 things we need out of that or
should prioritize
Lloris ready same thing is with all the
other projects documentation and mainly
by technical documentation and guides
and all that kind of stuff but also
writing a word like the why of multi
formats like why we came up with a which
problems does it solve yeah that's my I
mean my I haven't looked at multi-format
site in a little bit but it's it like
handsets some of that why but doesn't
really go in depth so are you suggesting
that we just write that up more fully
and potentially on specs
cool anything else to flag about multi
formats in q4 the website hasn't been
finish it would be great to get that up
as well as the documentation right now
it's basically just a clone of the
readme which works in some ways and like
we're waiting for content like rows back
and stuff but it'd be sweet if we could
have sabe I'd lay down to the bare bones
are like what's possible but have a
really good planning session about who's
this for how can we solve this you know
what's the website for who are its users
how can we really talk about how great
this is in a really clear fashion and
sort of move forward to make it really
polished and just beautiful would be
great Emily could you flag multi-format
says something that is going to need it
discussion at some point even if it
doesn't happen this week all right and
then related with that is in my notes
they said org set up but this was
Richard you had said something about
setting up org around multi formats and
I PLT and all these other things what
did you mean by that so with all of I
PFS is sort of branched and all the
sudden we now have different
organizations we have multi formats I
pld and just going to send orbit and we
have Libby to pee right so each of these
different organizations to set up in a
certain way there's like us a noble repo
a website repo a community repo and all
the readings like currently trying to
use standard greeting me up and trying
to make that consistent across so it
doesn't you end up with like random
preemies or random repos and no one
knows what they're doing it'd be good to
have a better sort of process written
down of all the work I'm doing there and
how other people could do that so it's
not just a depending on me and B that's
totally get lost and see we all decide
how things should look and now we should
talk about our github organizations um
for instance should I open up a new repo
in which organization and should i move
all my private repose to this
organization what do they do with
external collaborators want to move
repositories into one organization how
do we do all this for the stuff right
now it's been kind of nebulous which is
fine because you know we're growing
we're trying to figure things out we're
going to be making more so orbits
probably going to become an organization
at some point right and what's that kind
of look like
we maintain community awareness of the
fact that as an organization we work by
having tons of repose in different
organizations right so I would like to
have a discussion about that and I would
like to especially sort of nail down a
document that says this is how we do
things at protocol labs this is how we
do things at I PFS organization and we
would love to get community involvement
on that does that sort of answer your
question yeah and I wonder it would it
be overreaching to try to combine that
conversation with the conversation about
project repose that project repo seems
like a good way to track whether we are
actually setting up our organizations in
ways that match with our sort of we have
to design decide how we want to be doing
this and then project repost becomes the
way that we check whether we're actually
following through so it could be one in
my head it seems like one continuous
conversation is that unreasonable or
does that sound I think that the project
grupos tool probably will sort of some
specific purpose I think too like you
just you know having a table that you
can sort and so on that like policing
groups um some people want that to exist
so but it could be the same application
that has a couple different views or
something where one is really broken
down by scare all the different
organizations and hear all the different
repositories with those organizations um
and then you can have you know the view
that people want extinct there'll be
some resistance to changing it from from
some people that like are using
innocence now all right anything else
about or set up
I think one thing that would be really
useful to do is actually figure out how
coachable it is um the people that I've
been working on it and so on understand
it but we haven't yet really figured out
if I'm newcomer can't find their way
around it without you no direct
assistance I think it's a very important
thing to I think it's also true on the
sub organization level like the j s
repos how do you figure out where the
test star and stuff we've had a lot of
friction there ah and that would be
super sweet to overhaul I've go is also
having the same thing that's kind of
part of the tutorial overhaul there and
those will also break down into the
different calls later but I'm the
organizational level totally applies
I'm going to rearrange list because that
segue is straight into the question of
documentation especially developer
documentation um I recently reread the
producing open source software book and
it spends a lot of time talking about
the things that you can do in terms of
structuring your project to encourage
contribution and to like make it clear
how people can contribute and we'll do a
huge amount of work on I mean we make it
as a whole all of these I PFS repos are
exemplary in making the effort to do a
lot of that stuff but I think we can do
even better and there are good
guidelines for example in that book so
that's does anyone have particular
observations around that of stuff we
could work on over the next quarter
documentation in general so when you say
documentation gave me an API
documentation or do you mean a better
read me or so what I so there's kind of
two different target audiences for um
the documentation in general and I'm
looking at this from the JSI PFS
perspective but we have documentation
for people who want to contribute that's
one type of documentation but there's a
I and personally I think this is the
more important part which is the
consumers of that that particular module
so people who don't necessarily want to
contribute but they want to start using
the IP of its modules and we're
currently completely lacking that
documentation or like we're not
completely lacking it it's just really
really hard to find the right
documentation and so that's basically
what I'm looking at in terms of Bob
jayus related things and and this mainly
concerns the main module so JS I have
xavia and JS I Bevis in itself like how
do i use this module this is a question
that people can get answered at the
moment and this is a feedback that gets
in in the in the issues quite
often as well as IRC
so that's I I personally think that
should be the highest priority at the
moment to get the user documentation on
up to a level where people can actually
jump in and start using it developer
documentation goes deeper into all of
that and includes all the sub modules
that you know like Jays idea this use
but currently yet we just need to be
able to get people to use the modules
past
freedom so is it as limited 2jsi PFS I
definitely agree this is a problem in
jest IP address but I'm wondering if
this is not a product problem so for
example who is this problem it does is
probably exists also in the multi format
modules does this probably exists for go
I give s if so how strongly because it
exists there how important is it
I don't think it's important to separate
the the kind of documentation that we're
talking about in the three different
categories basically first you would
have my a tutorial like a quick start
kind of like how go IP offense is doing
it at the moment with the examples super
good to get started on like get a feel
for how the tool is working but then
also have like diets like how do you
actually build things by using this tool
like where does it help you and then of
course in the end you would have like a
reference guide for people who already
know what they are trying to do so they
can just jump in get right information
on and continue working so and i feel
that guy is missing in basically every
single project there are good
contributing guidelines like what
somebody calls the developer guide but
for the people that is actually going to
use these kind of things there is not
much except the tests we have in the
source code currently question victor so
when you say the reference guide do you
mean basically like api docs or
something more than that yeah api docs
just a long list of every single thing
that you can basically room okay uh
that's a great list thanks for that
victory looking at that list I'm sort of
adding a I would add a base layer around
the tutorials of because we're dealing
with a lot of topics that are very new
they're sort of like they're in the
computer science background but they're
not necessarily deeply most engineers
are not necessarily deeply familiar with
all these topics um there's sort of a
baseline of reference material that we I
would like to create that establishes
basic language around things like Merkel
tags things like the way we approach
networking the way we'd like what we
mean by pub sub because then that then
you don't have to re-explain those
things in all the other documentation
with like if we come up with a baseline
of it
good explanations for these things are
good link links to good explanations of
those things then we we can be a little
bit more focused and all that other
documentation otherwise I think you
basically will end up re teaching like
rewriting the stuff to teach those
things for the go I PFS documentation
and for the lib p2p documentation and it
sort of occurs over and over and over do
people agree with that that that would
be a smart way to approach documentation
to actually like do that baseline first
picture I do think that's for example
the API reference would be would be
unique / projects probably except for
example the HTTP API but the tutorials
the guides could just be in one place it
doesn't have to be project specific you
know because yeah free beautiful yeah
one thing to note on this is there a lot
of product like services out there for
example have api's in different
languages and there is like this theme
where you have the general explanation
of this is what this method does this is
how it works and then you have like a
small pouch that is language specific
and you have like a selector which you
should choose like I'm interested in je
s i'm interested in go i'm interested in
PHP right then you get examples and
exact call definitions for that language
in line with the rest of the gerund
documentation which is language agnostic
and I can see that happening for I PFS
as well as Matt mentioned there's a lot
of things that need to be explained
which are independent of the language it
also gives a good way to make sure
people know what is there in some
languages for example that one fee you
can pull one feature you click on go and
it says this is how you can go then you
could con jesam to a sailing we're sorry
this is currently not available in
JavaScript
that sounds great I I and this whole so
I think that would be a really cool way
to to approach doing this bass line of
work and then so then there's the
question of which approach to Reeves
it's probably existing tools for
building that documentation Richard
might be time to think about overhauling
the HTTP API spec which was a lot of
effort but isn't live it's it's it's
static which is unfortunate so we should
possibly think about taking that and
redoing it some way else especially as
I'm not convinced it's up to date um
since recent changes so smoothly I would
like to add that um I think getting some
documentation to get started and again
i'm talking about mainly the JavaScript
side of things but we're losing people
um because they can't use it they can't
figure out how to use the stuff even
looking at the tests they have a fine
hard time to find what they need so I
think there needs to be a sense of
urgency here arm and separate that from
like how we do it ideally because that's
going to take a lot of time I would like
to see something next week um to fix
this or address this issue we can always
improve on that but like if the starting
point is that bad that's that's
something we should um put on a very
high priority in the whole process of
doing this so then so then with that
let's let's actually ship to look at
just process it was web isn't I have
hearing the agenda community process or
on documentation but let's talk about
just the overall process around
documentation so one thing I would throw
in at the at the top of that
conversation is um creating
documentation is one of those things
where some of the documentation has to
be written by people who are deeply
knowledgeable but also a lot of the like
the grunt work of documentation is a
great thing for newbies to do
so figuring something out and writing
down here are the things I had to do in
order to make it work and then I
especially if for example you do that in
more of a partnered way right so
whenever whenever someone appears asking
questions on any of these repos or on on
IRC to respond saying hey we want to
make better documentation are you
interested in helping and and if they if
they take that on to follow up with them
and help them create the documentation
Lars I've brought this up a couple of
times already there's a kind of a social
contract around community documentation
called wwtf em read the manual
and it's basically what you're
describing whenever somebody comes on
and asked a question a question and
somebody steps up willing to help out
then you and kind of a agreement that
one of one of the two provides knowledge
well the other documents it um and rides
it up somewhere yes I remember don't
read about wtfm a while ago at like two
months ago and I remembered that I had I
I have to read it again I remember that
I had sort of it was like it's it's
exactly the right idea but I thought it
maybe it was that it underestimates i
think in addition to that approach you
also need a commitment from the
maintainer that sometimes you do have to
actually write documentation and on top
of asking asking country like outside
like newbies and people to write
documentation but i have to reread it to
remember what my other feedback was good
one very important point here is if you
you be fresh contributors to write
documentation for years you have to make
it very very very easy to contribute
documentation for example to do they if
i want to write documentation for j
exactly thats i don't know where you put
that where does it go and that's not
okay right like if i want a social
contract
saying people like please I'm explaining
something to you please document that
man there it needs to be very clear very
simple to write the documentation toward
somewhere get it reviewed from someone
who's knowledgeable and then merge it
and ideally the merge will be a
deployment to a website it without any
more changes because that's like if you
don't make it easy there are so many
barriers that it doesn't have so I Oh
Richard in that case it might be good to
overhaul IP / / examples because right
now it's kind of confusing whether it
goes to the website or not and how we do
that and how we pin it Lars maybe you
guys should sit down and just figure out
if we can make a really simple easy
guide in the roomies and make it very
clear to everyone going back like this
works this way um that's just one thing
um I had something else Oh Matt it might
be good to for wtfm you say it needs a
good luck of it from the maintenance as
well maybe we should rewrite to be TFM
and come up with a better Doc that
really shows that commitment that shows
making it looks like Flores is a
technical point though we've been going
on for like 35 minutes I think and we
have at most 15 more minutes do we have
any goal in this talk that we still need
to reach or that's a good question I it
looks like juan has his hands still up
given with the technical point so one um
yeah so the goal would be to one goal I
have is to go through that list of all
all these different endeavors just to
refresh people's minds and and get them
thinking about things might be really
important to to improve on
non non technical point point
okay I I would in it in response to the
technical point yes I've been watching
the time based on conversations before
this call I know that pretty much
everyone feels pretty strongly the
documentation should be a big priority
and developer experience should be a big
priority for the for q4 that's why I let
it have more breathing room on this call
I and having this record that we are all
clearly caring about it and thinking
about it i think is really valuable to
be putting out there um so so yes but
you're right we should we do have other
things to discuss so i'll let one
comment and we'll try to write this it
was my comment just let's probably use
the word overhaul when we really mean
dramatically change and like rethink
from scratch because i think you may
mean improvements and at least in my
mind you it's it's a very different
amount of effort to try it overhaul
something completely um just want to be
clear in that because that something is
doing it overhauling and some other
things down thank you
poor all right so then the other the
other things we have on this list at
which we can maybe drop some a community
process in general I want a couple
things I wanted to say to that I PFS
blog an IP of his pages might women feel
to push I PFS cluster of private
networks are both very important for us
to discuss on this call I and then
generally p is a minute winco an IP of
esberg go a JavaScript that is
definitely going to be covered in the
other in the project specific calls so
we might not need to cover it here um so
about community process in general I
simply wanted to give voice to the fact
that we're giving a lot of thought to
community process and we're definitely
aware of we want to have more people
participating in these calls for this
for these calls we we tried to put out a
call for people to participate in these
roadmap calls but those invitations sort
of went out pretty late um the main
thing I would want to personally want to
communicate to the community of
contributors and adopters is that this
is a we're making this shift to being
even more consistent about openness and
inviting people to participate and in
the future we will be putting out those
invitations more clearly and further in
advance and we're still sort of learning
for example we didn't realize that this
call what's going to require everyone to
join zoom to even watch the call I so um
I wanted to ignore to make sure that
everyone knows that we're really
thinking about this i'm working on it
and kuba yeah i just might fix the last
point because i just started streaming
at this call on beam using like with
protocol which should put like the
quality should be acceptable to watch
and hear and participate also it's using
the FTL protocol meaning we have like
less than a second delay which will be
better than youtube Thank You kuba I so
does anyone have anything to say on this
topic of community process I know that
the people protocol labs
people are going to be discussing this
amongst ourselves in the coming week
about how we're however engaging and
what we can do to improve community
process it's there anything we want to
discuss now on this call okay well so
then if the flag is planted they'd like
watch this space will will be doing more
around community process of freedom I
just realized is there anywhere issue to
put notes into it but I think it really
good job one single place where who's
interested in this discussion can put
notes or large sort of ideas and also
wear anything gets discussed from our
side is put it into to everybody that's
a good point can we maybe we can commit
that like next one next week's call will
report back on where that is oh yeah but
I think Walter we should open an issue
now for everybody to who wants to feel
like maybe they're listening to the
stream now an hour recording I like
realized like I want to give input to
this so i think there should be placed
fully okay can someone willing to open
it because would you be willing to open
that i get it i can open a ticket it's
just putting it into I PFS / community
yeah good yeah smells good make sure you
look it to the IP bed / PM issue for a
different um because people also going
to be going from there anything else on
that that topic that people wanted to
flag alright so if people won't have
ideas or comments or questions on that
added to the ticket the fritos going to
link to from the sprint page um can we
skip the IPF s blog and I PFS pages
stuff on this all right I so I PFS
cluster is something that um is
important I have a sense that it's on on
developers radar it could people speak
to that since I think it won't get much
discussion in the project specific calls
today
one yes I think a Ivanov cluster it's
one of the most important things for
anyone who wants to do large-scale
archiving of data so as soon as you
cross the maybe even five gigabytes out
they may even smaller and certainly you
wanted from replication so I think the
service in a super important tool for a
ton of groups anyone who wants a serious
that use had requested backup stuff and
so we have some initial design of it
going and we have some bunch of thoughts
and a certain amount of energy we did
some amount of working in into this last
quarter but it was a lot very
preliminary and it was mostly getting
like the harnessing around the project
getting started so the design is roughly
there the harness is roughly there we
actually need to like build the thing
like the bulk of or the comido building
epicness Buster still needs to be done
there's a certain amount of designs to
left around the interface so like the
porcelain to ipss cluster the plumbing
is is figured out to some degree the
implementation of plumbing is not yet
figured out and so it really is like the
core data structures or the core a way
that it will work which is a really hard
part is figured out but it needs a lot
of work um this is something that we
could invest into this quarter but
realistically it is a lot the link
building a lot of new things and you
know so fire logs you go on to I just
focus on cleaning up things so what we
could do is to figure out what is really
important tools to do this quarter in in
terms of of course or meaning like a
whether it is figuring out user
interface pieces right like literally
like you is but how users would go and
use this thing like command line tools
whether or what you guys need it all
these things and I think figuring that
out now which is not a ton of work but
it is significant amount would help us
you know really scoped out how much work
it will be on how we can
push it out there is a lot of interest
in this there's also interesting this
from other groups there is a couple
people at consensus and other
organizations who want to dedicate a
bunch of time until it's and so like one
person is can be dedicated to work on
the six just a matter of us spending up
working on that very regularly and so
that's kind of where it's at but it is
increasing importance and yellin along
with private networks both are critical
for this beast in organizations
well I'm noticing the time is there
anything else that people will want to
say about I PFS cluster all right i won
could you say something about private
networks and where that lies on a road
map yessir private networks is the point
of being able to set a set of ibanez
nodes that only talk to each other or in
some cases talk to the rest of the
network as well but have a clear
distinction of content that could only
be distributed in depth I the network so
this is something analogous to be pms in
the now in the straight transport world
but this is about like think of it like
a VPN put content and so you can either
be in a completely private network and
you don't have to dress the world this
is something that a lot of our bigger
biggest users really want to be able to
run their application a couple of their
own networks and not have to worry about
the rest of the network over time those
networks could be like what BP answered
today which is mostly separated but not
completely air lot so that you can have
some amount of content going through
that is meant to there is one really
easy way to set up the simplest version
of private networks which is just giving
you the ability to separate into your
own network that is something relatively
easy to do something we could shift
quickly but it's something that we
should um you know focus on
oh there the other thing is non private
networks sorry pronouns that are not
based on a shared key scene either some
pki that we have to think about and
there's something that we need to like
structure we need to think a lot more
carefully about how that would work what
how people would you say pki how
authentication would work how the
revocation story works and all this kind
of stuff I think that's stuff that is
definitely in a road map it just not
doesn't really have a date yet so it's
it's stuff that we know we want to do
but it's not stuff it's is directly and
like slated um does that make sense I
think that's a good test okay great
where do you I one where do you think
people can follow along to track that
conversation or or to express their
interest in seeing that get attention
and
yeah you're right there's there isn't a
good spot I think there's one issue
somewhere but there's not there's not
it's not very good this one I should go
out the fs and what this really should
be to be a note and make sure enough if
that's not so we should create some
space for it that it can go out to sense
that I remember and I can pull it up and
link to link to it has the description
of bespoke approaches these two
approaches like the simple private
network that allows you to build your
own network and it's not super security
kiss and in one node rose there's no
replication story you but have to like
change the key for everyone and then the
more advanced version of private
networks that allow you to you know have
a proper revocation sorry and also have
the ability to like the part of local
networks simultaneously that is a much
more complicated thing that you know it
was also described there but I would I
don't know how what we need to do one
question remains to be figured out which
is how much does a simple case buy into
this direction like how much how many
users absolutely require the more
complicated version and kind of went
right so a lot of users could get by
with a simpler version for now if they
know that the more complicated version
is coming in a certain amount of of
times so Oh Richard it's one point out
there's an IP / / IP puss cluster repo
which I just linked to in the notes
which also might be a good place to keep
track of this and maybe we should just
start putting issues there and talking
about it there cluster is different from
private notes sorry private networks
it's two private network they said three
don't listen to me right now so this is
a discussion we will create a note in I
PFS notes about private networks and we
will add a link to it in these agenda
notes also for people want to follow
along and if you are interested in that
please chime in on that note
so large you were right I allowed the
documentation discussion go for too long
which means one gets two minutes to run
through the entire list of projects that
are related to I PFS I did say it would
be diff assed I hope yeah this is kind
of rough um cool I'm going to do it
right sharing a screen if I can